---
layout: page
---

# Getting started
Before you can get started with documenting your code and generating a beautiful
website for it, you first need to install cldoc. This is a fairly simple process,
and the instructions below should allow you to install cldoc in a few minutes.

Before you start, make sure you have at least **libclang 3.1** development
installed on your system. Most recent distributions ship packages of recent
enough `libclang-dev` (or clang-devel). For Ubuntu precise, you might want to
install libclang-dev from the
[dr-graef ppa](https://launchpad.net/~dr-graef/+archive/llvm-3.1.precise). For
fedora, you can install `clang-devel`.

# 1. Installing using pip
cldoc is avaible at the [Python Package Index](http://pypi.python.org/pypi/cldoc/).
This is by far the easiest way to install cldoc. Make sure you have `pip`
installed (install `python-pip` on `ubuntu` and `fedora`) Simply use
`pip install --user cldoc` (you might need to use the `python-pip` command instead
on fedora). The `--user` will install cldoc locally in `~/.local`. If you want
to install it globally in your system, use `sudo pip install cldoc` instead.

# 2. Installing from source
First checkout the latest source from [git](https://github.com/jessevdk/cldoc).
cldoc itself is written in **python**, so you will also need that installed (all
systems normally already have it installed). The current version of cldoc has
not yet been tested with python3, any problems can be
[reported](https://github.com/jessevdk/cldoc/issues) of course and will be fixed.

## Runtime dependencies
The only additional runtime dependency besides libclang is the **pyparsing**
python library. You can get it from your distribution, or use
`pip install pyparsing`.

## Build dependencies ##
* coffeescript compiler
* sass compiler
* inliner

These build dependencies are used to generate the html webapp which renders
the documentation generated by cldoc. These are only needed once at build time.
The coffeescript compiler and inliner are usually installed easiest
by using `npm install coffee-script inliner`. sass can be installed using
`gem install --user-install sass`. It's also possible that your system provides
packages for these dependencies.

After the requirements are installed, first run `python setup.py generate` to
generate the webapp. After that simply run `python setup.py install` to
install cldoc. Note that if you have used npm and gem to install coffeescript,
sass and inliner locally (e.g. in node_modules/ and ~/.gem), use:

    python setup.py install \
        --coffee=node_modules/.bin/coffee \
        --sass=~/.gem/ruby/1.8/bin/sass \
        --inliner=node_modules/.bin/inliner

or something similar depending on where they actually got installed. You only
need to do this if the `coffee`, `sass` and `inliner` executables are not in
your `$PATH`.

# Installation completed
After following these steps you should have successfully installed cldoc!
Continue to [Documenting code](documenting.html) or directly to
[Generating site](generatingsite.html).
